Course Repeats and Retakes
Effective Fall 2024, there is a revised Course Retake and Course Repeat Policy for Kean University students.

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Why should I repeat a course? 

You can repeat a course to improve your grade point average and/or to meet prerequisite requirements. Please be aware that course credit can only be earned once and that repeated course attempts may impact funding as per Kean University’s Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy. Repeated course attempts may also impact academic standing.

 

When can I repeat a course?

If you are an undergraduate student, you may repeat each course once (for a total of two enrollments) if you earned a grade of F, D, C, C+, AF, or WD. While there are no limitations on the number of courses students may repeat, we encourage you to speak with your academic advisor prior to re-registering for a course. You should be aware of Kean University’s Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy to understand how repeated course attempts may impact your funding and how repeated attempts may impact your academic standing.

It’s important to note that graduate-level coursework cannot be repeated or recalculated even if it is completed by an undergraduate student.

 

When do I need to seek approval to repeat a course? 

You must seek approval to repeat a course if you earned a grade of B- or higher, or if a higher grade is needed for graduate school admissions purposes. 

The Dean of the college where your major is housed has the authority to approve additional course repeats only under limited, well-documented extenuating circumstances. The Dean will confer with other interested parties (e.g.- the Dean of the college in which the course is housed, Department Chairs or Program Directors, etc.) when necessary to ensure the exception is in your best interest and feasible from an enrollment standpoint.

 

How do I seek approval to repeat a course?

If approval to repeat a course is needed, email the Dean of the college that houses your major to request approval. Provide a detailed explanation regarding why you are seeking approval to retake the course in question. Deans can be found through the Colleges and Schools area of our website.

 

When do I need to use a form to have my grade recalculated? 

For courses completed before Fall 2024, you will need to submit a grade recalculation form to the Office of the Registrar. Courses repeated during the 2023-2024 academic year will be managed in accordance with the policy outlined in the 2023-2024 Undergraduate Catalog.

 

Where can I read the Course Repeat and Grade Recalculation policy?

You can read Kean’s new Course Repeat and Grade Recalculation policy in the 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog. 